SSR-3149: Develop-Tabs-Customization-Tips (#1308)
kintone-labs/kintone-ui-component: docs/document/docs/guides/tabs-customzation.md

---
id: tabs-customization
title: Tabs customization
sidebar_label: Tabs customization
---

## Overview
This article explains how to utilize and customize the Tabs component.<br>
We assume the following scenario:
1. Append KUC components to Tabs content.

> 2. Append kintone native field to Tabs content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Append Kintone native field to Tabs content.
```

> 2. Append Kintone native field to Tabs content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Append Kintone native fields to Tabs content.
```

### Components to use
- [Tabs](../components/desktop/tabs.md)
- [ReadOnlyTable](../components/desktop/readonly-table.md)

## Completed image

The completed image of the customized page is as follows:

![tabs customize](assets/tabs_customize.gif)

## What you will need to have ready

> Create an application that includes two blank fields with IDs 'space', 'spas' and add three table fields below them with IDs 'sales_record_table', 'task_management_table', 'sales_order_table'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an application that includes two blank fields with IDs 'space' and 'spas', and add three table fields below them with IDs 'sales_record_table', 'task_management_table', and 'sales_order_table'.
```

> Create an application that includes two blank fields with IDs 'space' and 'spas', and add three table fields below them with IDs 'sales_record_table' and 'task_management_table', 'sales_order_table'.

Reviewer 2: I thought you missed some points and I wanna suggest a better format.
The sentence below will be correct, right?

```suggestion
Create an application that includes the fields as follows:
- Two blank fields with id "space_for_native_kintone" and "space_for_custom_components"
- Three table fields with id "sales_record_table", "task_management_table", and "sales_order_table".
```

## JavaScript and CSS Customization

When you import the UMD file of Kintone UI Component to the app, you can upload the JavaScript files by following these steps:<br>
You can see how to upload a file in the [Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md).

> ### Defining Constants

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Defining constants
```

> We use constants to refer to important identifiers and values such as the version number of Kintone, different space IDs, kintone fields, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use constants to refer to important identifiers and values, such as the version number of Kintone, different space IDs, kintone fields, etc.
```

> We use constants to refer to important identifiers and values, such as the version number of Kintone, different space IDs, kintone fields, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use constants to refer to important identifiers and values, such as the version number of Kintone UI Component, space ids, Kintone fields, etc.
```

```javascript
const Kuc = Kucs['1.x.x'];

const SPACE_FOR_NATIVE_KINTONE = 'space_for_native_kintone';
const SPACE_FOR_CUSTOM_COMPONENTS = 'space_for_custom_components';

const SALES_RECORD_TABLE_ID = 'sales_record_table';
const TASK_MANAGEMENT_ID = 'task_management_table';
const SALES_ORDER_ID = 'sales_order_table';

> // A set of kintone fields that need to be shown/hidden on each tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// A set of Kintone fields that need to be shown/hidden on each tab.
```

const salesRecordTabFields = [SALES_RECORD_TABLE_ID];
const taskManagementTabFields = [TASK_MANAGEMENT_ID];
const salesOrderTabFields = [SALES_ORDER_ID];

> let currentTabFields;

Reviewer 2: Do we need this line for `#Defining constants` category?

Reviewer 2: Please check this comment.

Author: I think the constants was too much.
So I create a category to describe them.

Reviewer 2: Got it!

```

> ### Initialize Custom Component Tabs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Initialize Tabs for custom components
```

> We use the "Read-only Table" component from the Kintone UI Component Library to create the tab content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We utilize the ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library to create the tab content.
```

> We utilize the ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library to create the tab content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We utilize the ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library to create the Tabs content.
```

> We create three read-only tables: Sales Records, Task Management, and Sales Orders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We create three ReadOnlyTable components: Sales Records, Task Management, and Sales Orders.
```

> We also define a createContent() function that takes an array of components and adds them to a container with inner padding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also define a `createContent()` function that takes an array of components and adds them to a container with inner padding.
```

> Finally, we call the createTabs() function to create the tabs and add them to the specified space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we call the `createTabs()` function to create the tabs and add them to the specified space.
```

```javascript
function initCustomComponentTabs() {
  const salesRecordTable = new Kuc.ReadOnlyTable({
    label: 'Sales Record',
    columns: [
      { title: 'Create Date', field: 'date' },
      { title: 'Reporter Account', field: 'account' },
      { title: 'Communication Content', field: 'communication' }
    ],

>     data: [

Reviewer: You can align the data object to make it look better

      {
          date: 'Feb 28, 2023',
          account: 'Howard',
          communication:
          'Discussed the new product launch strategy with the client and received positive feedback.' +
          'The client agreed to place an order for 500 units of the new product. They also requested a 10% discount on the total order value.'
      }
    ]
  });
  const salesRecordContent = createContent([salesRecordTable]);

  const taskManagementTable = new Kuc.ReadOnlyTable({
    label: 'Task Management',
    columns: [
      { title: 'Status', field: 'status' },
      { title: 'Task Executor', field: 'executor' },
      { title: 'Task Requirements', field: 'requirements' },
      { title: 'Result Reporting', field: 'reporting' }
    ],

>     data: [

Reviewer: You can align the data object to make it look better

    data: [{ order: '1' }]
  });
  const salesOrderContent = createContent([salesOrderTable]);

  const tabs = createTabs(
    [salesRecordContent, taskManagementContent, salesOrderContent],
    true
  );
  addTabsToDOM(tabs, SPACE_FOR_CUSTOM_COMPONENTS);
}

function createContent(components) {
  const content = document.createElement('div');
  content.style.padding = '16px';
  components.map(component => content.appendChild(component));
  return content;
}

function createTabs(contents, isBorderVisible) {
  const items = [
    {
      label: 'Sales Record',
      value: 'salesRecordTab',
      content: contents ? contents[0] : ''
    },
    {
      label: 'Task Management',
      value: 'taskManagementTab',
      content: contents ? contents[1] : ''
    },
    {
      label: 'Sales Order',
      value: 'salesOrderTab',
      content: contents ? contents[2] : ''
    }
  ];
  const tabs = new Kuc.Tabs({
    value: 'salesRecordTab',
    borderVisible: isBorderVisible,
    items
  });
  return tabs;
}

function addTabsToDOM(tabs, space_id) {
  const spaceElement = kintone.app.record.getSpaceElement(space_id);
  spaceElement.appendChild(tabs);

> }

Reviewer 2: I think these two functions will be used for both cases: KUC components and Kintone native fields, but displayed just inside the first topic.
How about extracting these functions to another category?

```

> ### Initialize Kintone Native Tabs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Initialize Tabs for Kintone native fields
```

Reviewer 2: And for preventing DOM manipulations, we created the `borderVisible: false` option.
So please mention that for example...
You can set Kintone native fields to Tabs content without DOM manipulation setting the `borderVisible: false` option.

> We use the Kintone native tab feature to display different record fields.

Reviewer 2: I thought the English weren't correct.
How about this?
```suggestion
We use the Tabs component feature to display different Kintone native fields depending on the tab.
```

> We define three constants in the initNativeKintoneTabs() function, each representing a tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We define three constants in the `initNativeKintoneTabs()` function, each representing a tab.
```

> We define three constants in the `initNativeKintoneTabs()` function, each representing a tab.

Reviewer 2: It seems there is only one constant inside the `initNativeKintoneTabs` function.
What did you wanna say?

Author: I updated the sentences.
Please check.

> We use the setFieldsShown() function to hide and show the fields associated with the current tab and use the addTabsChangeEventListener() function to update the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the `setFieldsShown()` function to hide and show the fields associated with the current tab and use the `addTabsChangeEventListener()` function to update the field.
```

> We use the `setFieldsShown()` function to hide and show the fields associated with the current tab and use the `addTabsChangeEventListener()` function to update the field.

Reviewer 2: Please link the US devnet article page of this method.

Reviewer 2: Please check the comment.

```javascript
function initNativeKintoneTabs() {
  setFieldsShown(taskManagementTabFields, false);
  setFieldsShown(salesOrderTabFields, false);
  currentTabFields = salesRecordTabFields;
  const tabs = createTabs(undefined, false);
  addTabsChangeEventListener(tabs);
  addTabsToDOM(tabs, SPACE_FOR_NATIVE_KINTONE);
}

function addTabsChangeEventListener(tabs) {
  tabs.addEventListener('change', event => {
    switch (event.detail.value) {
      case 'salesRecordTab':
        switchDisplayedFields(salesRecordTabFields);
        break;
      case 'taskManagementTab':
        switchDisplayedFields(taskManagementTabFields);
        break;
      case 'salesOrderTab':
        switchDisplayedFields(salesOrderTabFields);
        break;
    }
  });
}

function switchDisplayedFields(displayedFields) {
  setFieldsShown(displayedFields, true);
  setFieldsShown(currentTabFields, false);
  currentTabFields = displayedFields;
}

function setFieldsShown(fields, isShown) {
  fields.forEach(field => {
    kintone.app.record.setFieldShown(field, isShown);
  });
}
```

> > This article was reviewed by Kintone and Google Chrome as of April, 2023.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This article was reviewed by Kintone and Google Chrome as of May, 2023.<br>
```

> > In addition, the version of Kintone UI Component that is used for customizations is v1.10.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In addition, the version of Kintone UI Component that is used for customizations is v1.11.0.
```

## What you will need to have ready

Create an application that includes the fields as follows:
- Two blank fields with id "space_for_native_kintone" and "space_for_custom_components"
- Three table fields with id "sales_record_table", "task_management_table", and "sales_order_table".

## JavaScript and CSS Customization

When you import the UMD file of Kintone UI Component to the app, you can upload the JavaScript files by following these steps:<br>
You can see how to upload a file in the [Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md).

> ### Defining constants

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Define constants
```

let currentTabFields;
```

### Create some common functions

We create two common functions

> - Function `createContent()` to create a KUC Tabs. And for preventing DOM manipulations, we created the `isborderVisible` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Function `createContent()` to create a KUC Tabs. And for preventing DOM manipulations, we created the `isBorderVisible` option.
```

> You can set Kintone native fields to Tabs content without DOM manipulation setting the `isborderVisible: false` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set Kintone native fields to Tabs content without DOM manipulation by setting `isBorderVisible: false`.
```

- Function `addTabsToDom` to append the Tabs to the specified space.

```javascript

> //You can set Kintone native fields to Tabs content without DOM manipulation setting the borderVisible: false option.

Reviewer 2: I thought you don't need this line because there is an explanation above.
```suggestion
```

function createTabs(contents, isBorderVisible) {
  const items = [
    {
      label: 'Sales Record',
      value: 'salesRecordTab',
      content: contents ? contents[0] : ''
    },
    {
      label: 'Task Management',
      value: 'taskManagementTab',
      content: contents ? contents[1] : ''
    },
    {
      label: 'Sales Order',
      value: 'salesOrderTab',
      content: contents ? contents[2] : ''
    }
  ];
  const tabs = new Kuc.Tabs({
    value: 'salesRecordTab',
    borderVisible: isBorderVisible,
    items
  });
  return tabs;
}

function addTabsToDOM(tabs, space_id) {
  const spaceElement = kintone.app.record.getSpaceElement(space_id);
  spaceElement.appendChild(tabs);
}
```

> ### Initialize Tabs for custom component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Initialize Tabs for custom components
```

> 

Reviewer 2: In the native kintone field pattern explanation, there are these lines.
But for custom component, you just start from the content component explanation.
Please arrange the sentences to be able to understand what can be done with this scenario.
> We use the Tabs component feature to display different Kintone native fields depending on the tab.<br>
> When a tab is clicked, we show the corresponding Kintone native fields and hide the rest of the fields.<br>

We utilize the ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library to create the Tabs content.<br>
We create three ReadOnlyTable components: Sales Records, Task Management, and Sales Orders.<br>

> We also define a `createContent()` function that takes an array of components and adds them to a container with inner padding.<br>

Reviewer 2: In the code below, we just call createContent function not defining.
So please arrange the sentence.

Author: The sentence has been updated.

```

### Initialize Tabs for custom components

> We use the Tabs component feature to display different custom tables(create with ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library) depending on the tab.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the Tabs component feature to display different custom tables (create with ReadOnlyTable component from the Kintone UI Component library) depending on the tab.<br>
```

We use the Tabs component feature to display different Kintone native fields depending on the tab.<br>
When a tab is clicked, we show the corresponding Kintone native fields and hide the rest of the fields.<br>

> In the "setFieldsShown" function, the fields are shown or hidden by using the [kintone.app.record.setFieldShown()](https://kintone.dev/en/docs/kintone/js-api/other/show-or-hide-a-field/) api and use the `addTabsChangeEventListener()` function to handle the click event and update the fields.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the "setFieldsShown()" function, the fields are shown or hidden by using the [kintone.app.record.setFieldShown()](https://kintone.dev/en/docs/kintone/js-api/other/show-or-hide-a-field/) API and use the `addTabsChangeEventListener()` function to handle the click event and update the fields.<br>
```
